chapter 6

Like any other social networking sites, you need to register for an online repository service (e.g. GitHub, Bitbucket). In GitHub, registering is the same process as a user would if he/she register for twitter. a user needs to pick a username, an email and a password and after signing up, the user have a account. The next things that a user would need to do is to configure his/her created account. Just like editing your profile on facebook, editing user profile configuration is the same. All configuration settings are found in the settings page right about the the sandbox icon on the topbar. From there, a user can set up his/her SSH keys to inegrated with his local/server repository, change avatars, email addresses and the like.

When a user wants to contribute to a project, he/she might not have a push access to it unless granted by the owner of the repository. If no access is present, the user can just fork the project and make the changes he/she wants and make the project entirely his/hers. After your changes has been made (and working perfecly) you can now have the permission to ask the owner to push back your forked repository to the original repository via pull request.

The GitHub platform is designed around a particular collaboration workflow controlled around pull requests. the flow works when a repository is created, a contributor wants to contribute to improve project, push his commits to the project. If some stable and notable change can be merged back the owner's repository, a pull request can be created where they can discuss and comments on commits and codes made. The owner has the option to merge the pull request and the contributor to continue pushing commits until the owner decides to merge the pull request. There was a discussed scenario on the chapter where doing the things mentioned above properly. Aside from the scenario presented. Github also talks about adnvance commands that can be used to manage projects like references and running down through the PRs (Pull Requests). In this section, Github gives importance the the capabilities the users can do like commenting on codes and adding snippets to thier comments to improved communication between the poeple involved inside the project and giving emphasis on being a social network for coders where they can easily interact with each other.

In GitHub, a user can create his/her perosnal repository where he/she can put in his/her own code, from here, the user now has the responsibility of maintining it and keeping it up to date. Whne you create a repository, you have the option to make it public, or private (the user can change this). When a repoitory is created, the user will have the option to add collaborators or if it's public, everyone can fork it. When a pull request is done over a user's repository, the email the user used to actually set up his/her accound is sent a notification that a PR is pending in a user's repo, from this they can collaborate with the person who sent the PR and discuss matters regarding the repository and the PR itself. Other options ere instances where there's a need for PR refs to be views and PR over another PR. Even with these amound of capabilities and activities present inside a repository, GitHub actually has every tools needed to properly manage repositories and collaboration between members of the repo.

Aside from personal or single-user accounts, GitHub also has organizational accounts where all repositories of an orginazation is stored inside the organization's account. The repositories inside these organizations can be set permission depending who can only do what with the repos inside. For a particular repo, a team is designated, all records regarding the team and repo's actiity is shown inside the organization depending the ont permissions set by the owner or the teams leader. From here, the organization can collaborate on things that mainly goes around big projects like one team assigned to do specific jobs. The information, including activity streams, can be gathered in what they call an audit log where all  information under the organization goes into.